In this lecture we're going to go ahead and create some more advanced texture for it correct.
Now before we move forward with this let's go ahead and save this out so we don't lose it.
So come to save as and I'm just going to save now as wooden crate
next.
I'm going to go ahead and take all of my wooden crate layers that have Textron them and I'm going to
put them into their own folder that I'm going to turn that folder off and drag it to the bottom.
That way we don't have to worry about that right now.
We creating our second texture next.
Let's go ahead and jump back into our document that has our two pieces of wood on it and we're going
to save these out also.
So we'll come up to File Save As I don't recall this would texture
and then I'm going to add the number one at the end because we're going to create a second wooden texture.
So let's hit enter.
Save that.
OK.
Perfect.
Now we can go ahead and select both these and delete them now.
Last time we kind of had the problem that our pieces of wood weren't long enough to stretch the span
of our pattern.
So we want to make sure this time we create a little bit skinnier pieces of wood.
So maybe something like that.
And what we're going to do is we're going to fill us in with sort of a grayish orange color.
So when it come down to our oranges some are about there should be good and we want to come in somewhere
around here OK.
Let's go ahead and fill that in now.
This is our base color from here.
We're going to build on top of this starting with the darker highlights and moving up all the way to
the brightest highlight.
So now I'm going to go ahead and select a more orange color and I'm going to bring up the lightness
a little bit to about there maybe a little bit more towards the saturated side.
OK.
Now we want to do is we want to start painting out the basic shapes and forms that are going to be in
our woodgrain now.
Last time it was a lot more simple to paint in the wood grain because all we had to do was draw the
lines and then create a highlight side to that and then just turn down the opacity on those.
This time it's going to be more complicated and you're going to have to have a little bit more understanding
about light and shadow.
So if you're having a hard time with this part of the course go ahead and go back to the basics of drawing
and values and that's going to help you a lot with this section of the course.
So let's go ahead and start painting in those base shapes for the form of our wood grain.
Now again go ahead and do a google search for woodgrain.
If you're having a hard time remembering what woodgrain looks like last time you were just looking for
the pattern this time.
You actually want to look for the form of woodgrain.
Now you don't have to make your woodgrain look exactly the way it looks in real life.
You can go ahead and use a little bit of your imagination but for the most part you want it to be based
off of real life woodgrain everything that looks really nice and good in the art world usually is based
off of the real world.
So you can see here I'm just creating really simple shapes for my woodgrain.
So
awesome.
Next we're going to go ahead and create a made of ground color between these two colors and we're going
to do that by bringing our brush size down to 5 percent by hitting the number five on our keyboard.
And now we can go ahead and paint on the edge like so and then you'll see if we zoom in there you can
see we get this color that's in between those two colors.
Let's go ahead and select that with our eyedropper and switching back over to our brush tool and bring
in our brush capacity back up to 100 percent.
That's going to allow us to paint with that color but without being transparent like so we can also
bring down a brush size.
Now I want to switch my brush over to more of a print paint brush.
Right now I'm on as hard edged brush.
I want to switch over to this guy right here and that's just going to allow me to get more organic and
wispy type of brush strokes.
So now we're just going to kind of randomly paint the edges of these in just a blended in a little bit
more.
Now this is definitely a process the way we're going to be painting this texture and it can take a while
but just know that things that look really good usually take a good amount of time to create
perfect.
All right.
So now we're kind of getting to our basic setup next what we want to do is we want to add some more
texture in there.
So I'm going to go ahead and select this lighter color and then I'm going to find an even lighter version
of that.
Somewhere out there and maybe more towards the orange side some are about there should be good.
And using my brush I can go ahead and start painting in more texture.
So the what I'm going to do is I'm going to kind of create a pattern texture
that kind of looks like football shapes or ice shapes they're kind of like a Elliptic ellipses but the
edges of them are pinched.
So if you ever look at wood that's been carved you'll see the same pattern in it.
Now this is a little bit too light for me.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to bring down my brush opacity to 30 percent by hitting the number
three on my keyboard.
And now I can go ahead and paint and it's a lot lighter and if I want it to be darker I can go ahead
and paint on top of that again and just keep layering that on the whole process of this type of painting
is all about layering.
We're just going to keep layering and layering and layering until we get the look that we want.
Now in this case honestly I'm not really following any rules about where the light source is coming
from.
It's kind of coming from everywhere all around it because once we add this to our crate drawing We're
going to be flipping these back and forth up and down.
And so if they have a light source it's going to make it look incorrect.
When we flipped upside down so I'm trying to keep it very neutral in the way that the light is hitting
it.
So you'll see down here there's highlight on that side and then we're also going to add highlight on
the other side to.
So just try to keep it as neutral as possible.
Great.
So now we have the first layer of real highlight I guess you could say.
And next to it we're going to do is we're going to add a little bit more color into that.
So we're going to come over to our color picker and we're going to grab pretty saturated Brown.
We want it to be on the darker side.
So somewhere around there.
OK.
And now we're going to start adding some of that into these cracks and crevices.
This is just to make it look a little bit more interesting.
Sometimes you might find that when you start adding colors and different hues and saturations to your
artwork it doesn't really work out and that's OK.
All you have to do is undo it.
Honestly we should probably be doing this on a separate layer but I'm not really worried about it right
now.
But if you're worried about something not looking good do it on a separate layer and then you can always
just delete that layer.
Great.
Now I want to go ahead and find an even lighter highlight color.
So select this color down here and then come up to about there should be good come up more towards the
yellows and these are my brush tool.
Go ahead and start painting even brighter highlights.
Now I'm going to bring my brush opacity down to 20 percent now by hitting the number two on the keyboard.
Because at this point I want it to be pretty sensitive as to how much highlight it's adding to my artwork.
Great.
Next one I want to do is I want to brighten this a little bit.
It's looking a little bit too dark for me and it's not looking enough like wood.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to select this mid color right there and use my brush.
I'm just going to start filling in large areas with that color.
Like I said this is all a process and you just have to work back and forth back and forth and find what
works for you and what you like.
Then when I grab another highlight color but an even wider one to start filling in more areas.
So
great.
Let's go ahead and add a little bit more highlights to this.
I'm going to select my brightest highlight color and then I'm going to bring it up even more.
I'm going to come way more towards the yellows and saturate that a little bit more.
Also I want to go ahead and start painting in new highlights.
Is
Now if you're feeling a little bit confused about what's going on here just remember that when you're
creating artwork like this you're just building up on the highlights so you generally start with shadow
and then you add a little bit lighter of a highlight on top of that and then a lighter highlight and
a lighter highlight and you keep building and building.
And then sometimes you have to change things like I did when I grabbed my mid color and I painted on
top of some of the stuff so I can neutralize it all out and start from the beginning.
But basically that's what's going to be doing is building up highlights and also make a note that when
you have a highlight that slowly blends into a darker color and it's going to give it sort of a look
as though are surfaces doing this.
If we're looking at your surface from the side it's going to look like it's doing something like that.
If you have a nice soft blend into it so such as this area right there it's kind of like looking like
it's doing that.
If you have a really hard edged like this it's going to look like it's doing this.
So just keep that in mind while you're creating your artwork.
You'll notice that I'm using my eyedropper tool to select the colors which are the colors that are being
mixed between two colors and I'll select those colors and then I'll start painting with that to help
blend two colors together.
And then I'm just going to try some glue in there and add a little bit of blue gray just to see how
that looks.
And it turns out that I like it pretty well.
Remember to just experiment with things.
Experiment with colors the values of things do a lot of experimenting.
All right that brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture we got the basic paint set up for our wood textured in the next lecture.
We're going to go ahead and take this wood plank and painted a little bit more to look a little bit
better.
And then we're going to make a copy of it move it over and sort of reshape the painting landscape on
it to make it look like a different piece of wood.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.